CoinBleed.md, before:

# CoinBleed analysis and fix

## Analysis
ION is a PoS coin with masternodes, based on Peercoin, Transfercoin and various other coins. 
At date [date], unusual patterns in stake production where observed, which was soon identified as an attack with the following characteristics:

 - Blocks produced in the past were accepted
 - Difficulty dropped
 - Several blocks were submitted and accepted from low-coin and low-coinage wallets

## Compare to other coins 
Various other coins include fixes to parts of the block validation process that haven't been included in ION Coin. Such as:
- Orbitcoin allows a smaller window for blocks from the past
- Stratis allows a smaller window for blocks from the future
- The MIDAS algorithm is less susceptible to difficulty manipulation than the ION Coin difficulty algo.

Blocks from the future
### Stratis
We will incorporate fixes from the Stratis code that prevent blocks from the future to be submitted:

- [Commit "leave old fork behind"](https://github.com/stratisproject/stratisX/commit/b2bacb4929b76b87fc2543b57155229cbd350096)
- [Commit "hardfork w/ better syncing"](https://github.com/stratisproject/stratisX/commit/b80d3ea6442d26d9ccae5174b99f52f64af97d8f)
- [Commit "hardfork"](https://github.com/stratisproject/stratisX/commit/d2c9e5f1bfe91e0b7fa1aa1d8d1de8f831c7318f)
- [Commit "Set hardfork date"](https://github.com/stratisproject/stratisX/commit/271c5a10732abc3568464c0861e2fe3a75262a5b)

In Stratis, the following files are updated for a hardfork that addressed a comparable hack:
- src/main.cpp
    - Better comparison of GetBlockTime() to FutureDrift() 
        - [here](https://github.com/stratisproject/stratisX/blob/master/src/main.cpp#L1960)
        - [here](https://github.com/stratisproject/stratisX/blob/master/src/main.cpp#L2055)
        - [here](https://github.com/stratisproject/stratisX/blob/master/src/main.cpp#L2066)
- src/main.h
    - Updated FutureDrift to be dependent on both nTime (timestamp of the node receiving the block) and nHeight (current block height) [here](https://github.com/stratisproject/stratisX/blob/master/src/main.h#L62)
- src/checkpoints.cpp
    - Added a checkpoint to mark the block of the fork: [here](https://github.com/stratisproject/stratisX/blob/master/src/checkpoints.cpp#L28)
    - Later, added a checkpoint to mark the blocks after the fork [here](https://github.com/stratisproject/stratisX/blob/master/src/checkpoints.cpp#L38)


Additionally, Stratis incorporates checks to make sure some transactions are not propagated; in particular, transactions that cannot be included in the next block should not be propagated to prevent specific double-spend and DoS attacks; this code can be found [here](https://github.com/stratisproject/stratisX/blob/master/src/main.cpp#L276)

Commit message:

Updated how to incorporate Stratis fixes

CoinBleed.md, after:

# CoinBleed analysis and fix

## Analysis
ION is a PoS coin with masternodes, based on Peercoin, Transfercoin and various other coins. 
At date [date], unusual patterns in stake production where observed, which was soon identified as an attack with the following characteristics:

 - Blocks produced in the past were accepted
 - Difficulty dropped
 - Several blocks were submitted and accepted from low-coin and low-coinage wallets

## Compare to other coins 
Various other coins include fixes to parts of the block validation process that haven't been included in ION Coin. Such as:
- Orbitcoin allows a smaller window for blocks from the past
- Stratis allows a smaller window for blocks from the future
- The MIDAS algorithm is less susceptible to difficulty manipulation than the ION Coin difficulty algo.

Blocks from the future
### Stratis' fixes
We will incorporate fixes from the Stratis code that prevent blocks from the future to be submitted:

- [Commit "leave old fork behind"](https://github.com/stratisproject/stratisX/commit/b2bacb4929b76b87fc2543b57155229cbd350096)
- [Commit "hardfork w/ better syncing"](https://github.com/stratisproject/stratisX/commit/b80d3ea6442d26d9ccae5174b99f52f64af97d8f)
- [Commit "hardfork"](https://github.com/stratisproject/stratisX/commit/d2c9e5f1bfe91e0b7fa1aa1d8d1de8f831c7318f)
- [Commit "Set hardfork date"](https://github.com/stratisproject/stratisX/commit/271c5a10732abc3568464c0861e2fe3a75262a5b)

In Stratis, the following files are updated for a hardfork that addressed a comparable hack:
- src/main.cpp
    - Better comparison of GetBlockTime() to FutureDrift() 
        - [here](https://github.com/stratisproject/stratisX/blob/master/src/main.cpp#L1960)
        - [here](https://github.com/stratisproject/stratisX/blob/master/src/main.cpp#L2055)
        - [here](https://github.com/stratisproject/stratisX/blob/master/src/main.cpp#L2066)
- src/main.h
    - Updated FutureDrift to be dependent on both nTime (timestamp of the node receiving the block) and nHeight (current block height) [here](https://github.com/stratisproject/stratisX/blob/master/src/main.h#L62)
- src/checkpoints.cpp
    - Added a checkpoint to mark the block of the fork: [here](https://github.com/stratisproject/stratisX/blob/master/src/checkpoints.cpp#L28)
    - Later, added a checkpoint to mark the blocks after the fork [here](https://github.com/stratisproject/stratisX/blob/master/src/checkpoints.cpp#L38)

Additionally, Stratis incorporates checks to make sure some transactions are not propagated; in particular, transactions that cannot be included in the next block should not be propagated to prevent specific double-spend and DoS attacks; this code can be found [here](https://github.com/stratisproject/stratisX/blob/master/src/main.cpp#L276)

### Discussion
FutureDrift () ideally selects the strictest conditions based on blockheight and blocktime: if one of both is after the forking point, the recent, more strict condition should apply.
The Stratis implementation seems to select the least strict condition: if nHeight is manipulated to be before the fork, the 'old' drift values are selected; and if the nHeight is after the fork, but the nTime is manipulated to be low, the 'old' drift values are selected.

### Adapting Stratis' fixes
In Stratis, Testnet was restarted with the updated FutureDriftV2(), while in ION Coin, we used Testnet to simulate the fork where we choose a block height (78800) to switch from ProtocolV1 (up to and including block Fork1Height) to ProtocolV2 (after block Fork1Height)
This enables us to simplify the FutureDrift() functions.

The updated FutureDrift() functions are [here](https://github.com/cevap/ion/blob/midas-algo/src/main.h#L63-71):

```inline bool IsProtocolV1(int nHeight){ return nHeight <= Params().Fork1Height(); }
inline bool IsProtocolV2(int nHeight){ return nHeight > Params().Fork1Height(); }  

inline bool IsDriftReduced(int64_t nTime) { nTime > Params().Fork1Time; } // Drifting Bug Fix, hardfork on Thursday, June 15, 2017 3:41:20 PM GMT

inline int64_t FutureDriftV1(int64_t nTime) { return nTime + 16200; }
inline int64_t FutureDriftV2(int64_t nTime) { return nTime + 15; }

inline int64_t FutureDrift(int64_t nTime, int nHeight) { return IsProtocolV2(nHeight) ? FutureDriftV2(nTime) : FutureDriftV1(nTime); }```

In main.cpp, the following changes need to be made:
- [x] Update calls to FutureDrift to include nHeight (in addition to nTime)
- [ ] Change the FutureDrift() function to return the 'old' drift values only if both the block time and the block height are in the past.
- [ ]  Figure out what to do with GetPastTImeLimit()
    - ```if (GetBlockTime() <= pindexPrev->GetPastTimeLimit() || FutureDrift(GetBlockTime(), nHeight) < pindexPrev->GetBlockTime())```
        

# TODO
- Replace the links to the master repo with links to the lines in the commits? Find better way of showing the source?
